



next →
← prev

Python Modules for Automation
In the following tutorial, we will discuss some of the best Python modules or tools that are used for automation and testing. There can be various issues while producing software, and Automation and Testing are one of the best ways to resolve these problems without spending a lot of time. Using this method, we can test the programs and check every case. There are several well-known languages like Java and Python that are used for automation and software testing. The following tutorial mainly focuses on some of the widely used modules in the Python programming language for automation and software testing.
So, let's get begun.
Understanding the Full-Stack Automation
In this modern world, automation can be considered necessary in order to achieve optimization, efficiency, and best practices in the process of any business. This process of automation is also critical for IT operations, specifically while utilizing SAP as the most crucial application in the landscape of the organization. A full-stack automation process will handle complex applications that are going to drive some significant business operations. This system will also provide more than one platform, geography, tool, as well as technology.
Understanding the Importance of Full-Stack Automation
There are a lot of advantages that we will get from this full-stack automation process. It will trigger faster development cycles, fewer bugs in the IT system, less confusion, and quicker resolution of application problems. Once we apply this automation to the company, we can save a lot of money and increase the overall productivity of the business. If some of us are using the Python programming language for our business, this tutorial may be the best choice. We are going to share some automation libraries and utilities that are available in Python.
List of Python modules for Automation and Testing
There are different modules and tools available in Python that can be used for Automation and Software Testing. Some of these modules and tools are listed below:

Robot Framework
PyTest
Splinter
Selenium
Behave
Pywinauto
Automagica
Beautiful Soup
PDFMiner
Locust Framework

Now, let us discuss these Python modules and tools in brief.
The Robot Framework
The Python programming language provides a framework called the Robot Framework that we can use in order to test the automation process in the company. This framework uses the keyword-driven approach, so it can make the tests easy to create and readable. We can use the Robot Framework to test many other things, like MongoDB, Android, Mainframe, FTP, Appium, and a lot more.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Robot Framework.
The PyTest module
PyTest is among the most famous automation frameworks in various languages. This module is very concise so that it can focus on testing. We can write some other methods when utilizing this platform, and they are marked as events and can be utilized in order to make the entire operation reusable and scalable.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the PyTest module.
The Splinter library
Splinter is an awesome wrapper-type library that is specifically designed for Selenium in the Python programming language. It is a free, open-source utility that can be utilized in order to test web applications with Python. We can use this library to automate the browser operations, like interaction with other objects, visiting URLs, and a lot more.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Splinter library.
The Behave library
Whenever we want to select a behavior-driven library used for development purposes, the Behave library serves the best. his framework has several similarities to Cucumber. However, the Behave library is specifically designed and developed in the Python programming language.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Behave library.
The Pywinauto library
Python also offers a platform that allows automation based on non-browser functionality. This Python library is known as the Pywinauto library and is a set of Python modules that are utilized in order to automate the Windows Graphical User Interface (GUI). This automation will handle complex operations like the extraction of information and text data.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Pywinauto library.
The Automagica module
The Automagica module of the Python programming language is among the most famous open-source intelligent robotic process automation or SPRA platforms. We can utilize this platform in order to automate several cross-platform functions. For instance, file and folder operations, manipulating a PDF file, automating a browser, e-mail business, and a lot more. We can use this utility to speed up the entire process of software development.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Automagica module.
The Beautiful Soup library
Python also provides another yet famous library known as Beautiful Soup that allows programmers to extract data from HTML and XML files. Most programmers generally have a series of frameworks that will consist of several scripts to help Python, and these scripts do use this utility effectively and efficiently.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Beautiful Soup library.
The PDFMiner library
If we want to perform a series of examinations of the PDF file, we may want to consider having a utility like the PDFMiner library. This library acts as a text extraction utility allowing programmers to extract any PDF documents. We can verify and test any PDF files when we are working with the PDFMiner library properly.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the PDFMiner library.
The Locust Framework
The Locust Framework is another amazing framework specifically designed for software testing purposes with the help of the Python programming language. This framework is an easy-to-use load testing utility, and it allows programmers to find out the number of users that can be handled by the system. It has a friendly web-based user interface (UI) that allows programmers to access various features and advantages from this utility.
For more details, one can read the official documentation of the Locust Framework.
The Conclusion
As software developers, most of us may want to know the best utility that can be used for Automation and Software Testing purposes in order to automate or test any of their day-to-day activities. Python can be a powerful automation programming language that we need to have. It is easy for us to connect this utility with other tools, libraries, and platforms available today. Once we know how to combine these tools, we can easily automate some of our activities.


Next TopicData Visualization in Python using Bokeh Library




← prev
next →




