



next →
← prev

Why Should We Learn Python for Data Science?
Python is a programming language that continues to grow in popularity. Being a high-level language, Python is a language that emphasizes readability over complexity. It has an easy-to-follow indentation system that makes it the preferred language of researchers and programmers alike.

This is why it's worth studying to program in Python in order for a way to master data manipulation in any way or form.
Why learn Python for data science?
Python is among the most widely used code languages used in the world. Its position at the top of the list of languages for coding is confirmed by its passionate community of learners and users, who are increasing by the minute.
The principal reason behind the popularity of Python is its ease of use and versatility. In the 2000s, people were terrified of programming because of the complexity and difficulty of programming languages such as C++, Java, and Lisp.

Python is easy to master in parts because it's an extremely high-level programming language. It's more similar to human language than the binary languages that machines use. We'll have to remember the few dozen reserved syntax terms and formats Python can be written using English, which allows anyone to figure out the meaning of a few lines of code does without needing access to the software.
And, unlike many other languages, We can begin using Python to analyse data sets even when we are inexperienced users. This is possible because of the pre-programmed syntax that is easy to create and execute with concrete results early during your learning journey. Later, as we get familiar with various syntax commands specific to our needs - and perhaps even starting to create our syntax - we'll be amazed at how efficiently Python allows us to carry out operations and tasks quickly and efficiently.
Is Python Better than R for Data Science?
There's only one other programming language with a good reputation that can compete with Python in data science, and its R -- and should not be misunderstood with Ruby. Although each R and Python is utilized regularly by analysts, data scientists, and researchers, they play different functions.
In essence, R is used exclusively to analyse data and statistics, while Python is a general-purpose language utilized in different types of data science and software engineering.
Although they share a lot of similarities in terms of usage and purpose, R and Python are not identical when it comes down to the four elements of data science, including exploration, collection modelling, visualization, and collection.
They differ in the way they consider each pillar, resulting in results that examine the information from a different angle.
Data Exploration
It is possible to think of data exploration as the little sibling to data analysis. The process involves analysing the data in search of underlying patterns and characteristics that are shared. However, data exploration doesn't provide important insights from the data, but it is utilized to help scientists understand the larger picture and, in the process, to be followed.
R was created to accomplish this in-built, whereas Python can achieve similar results by making use of third-party libraries.
With Python, we are able to take advantage of its many libraries that allow us to explore our data without writing codes from scratch. For example, with Pandas, we can sort, filter, and present data sets and collections.

However, R is also more statistical. R is a great tool for filtering and displaying data as well as executing statistical tests. R has built-in data types for matrices, vectors, and DataFrame. Python doesn't include these features in itself. However, data scientists utilize these libraries. NumPy as well as the Pandas libraries. These libraries also have the benefit of being built over the C programming language, which means they are able to perform operations on huge datasets much quicker than R.
Statistical Modelling
After collecting and analysing our data, it's a moment to develop a suitable model. Modelling data is the process of creating a model that is an abstract set of rules that define the relationship between data elements and one another, typically with reference to the physical world. If models can be used to create predictions regarding data that is not seen, it is referred to as machine learning.
Python is a language that allows you to build custom data modelling by doing a bit of effort. In contrast, and similar to data exploration, we could make use of software from pre-built Python libraries to build our model. For instance, we could create numerical data models using NumPy or employ machine learning algorithms with scikit-learn. Similar results to R will require us to depend on other packages because its primary functionality does not allow modelling.

Each Python and R are able to do statistical modelling. However, R is meant for static analysis, creating a report or paper. In order to implement the model and allow it to be used in live decision-making within a site or application. This is due to the fact that Python is a true general-purpose programming language. Therefore, it can be used with software frameworks that make use of Python, including Django or Flask.
Without any additional packages, R can do modelling (linear models), but Python isn't able to.
Data visualization
As the name suggests, it represents data visually by using graphs, charts, charts, plots, and maps to show your results. Although it might sound easy initially, data visualization is an extremely delicate process since the outcomes of a poor-quality visualization may be confusing or difficult to comprehend.

Python can generally be considered to be effective in the field of data exploration, and it has tools for the deployment of models. However, in the visualization of data, it's a little more difficult to work with Python over R. Still, it is possible to use some of Python's other external libraries like Matplotlib and Seaborn to produce charts and graphs that reflect our results.
Data visualization is among R's best assets since it was developed to display the results of statistical analysis. That's why it is easy to make sleek and impartial graphic designs.
Is Python Necessary in the Data Science Field?
For a career in Data Science, we'll have to master at least one of two languages, either Python as well as R. If users are already familiar with working with R and Python, it's recommended to explore it prior to attempting another language. However, If they are a novice, they should start with Python because of its flexibility.
But, if we decide to ignore Python and R, we could be missing many important opportunities in our professional careers. Additionally, we could be spending time and energy figuring through problems we could not have encountered using Python.
Python is extremely adaptable and accommodating -- two characteristics vital in handling huge amounts of data frequently. If we choose to use the correct structure and syntax, we'll be able to use a variety of algorithms to manipulate our data in the way we need. This is a difficult task in more rigid languages, which requires us to master completely new techniques before we are able to apply a new kind of operation or computation to our data.
Python is able to grow with our progress. Even as a beginner with just a few months of Python experience and the aid of the numerous tutorials and tutorials available on the internet, we can begin making use of databases and analysing them. When we're more adept, we will be able to use the many Python libraries available online to reduce time and effort. In addition, that we can make ourselves our loops and conditionals and syntax to cut down on time spent working and code volume and make it simpler to analyse and correct our code for mistakes in the future.
In our quest to master Python, it is crucial to take courses and classes specialized in teaching Python to data scientists. The capabilities we'll require the most in Python depend on our industry and the application. There are many online sources to master Python at no cost. Additionally, that we don't require specific software or gadget to begin learning. All we'll require is Python source code and an editor for code. They're all easily accessible and are cost-free to download and use.


Next TopicHow to Change the "legend" Position in Matplotlib




← prev
next →




