



next →
← prev

C vs. C++ vs. Python vs. Java
Programs have turned out to be an inseparable part of our daily lives. Everything here is now digitized and linked through the Internet of Things. C, C++, Java, and Python are still on top of the charts of popular programming languages among most programmers. Because it has features of both low as well as high-level languages, C is classified as a middle-level language. C++ has grown in prominence as a fast and importantly compiled language for programming, and it is often the first language of programming that a rookie programmer learns. Java is widely used because of its platform freedom, and many desktop programs are written in the language. Python is an interpreted programming language that is also a contemporary and fast-typing language.
Let us go over each language in detail.
C Programming Language
On the other hand, the C programming language comprises statements, functions, and variables. The C programming language is easily expandable, making it flexible for adding new functionalities. To begin, C is a procedural language of programming that supports pointers. C is a programming language consisting of statements, functions, and variables. C is an adaptable programming language that can quickly take on new features.
What is C's Potential?

C is a quick and efficient programming language.
It has 32 keywords and supports the procedural programming language.
This type of language has built-in operators that make building complicated programs easier.

C++ Programming Language
C++ is an object-oriented coding language that recognizes classes as well as objects. It's a versatile programming language for a wide range of applications. It can create operating systems, browsers, and games, among other things. It provides several programming approaches such as procedural, functional, object-oriented, etc. As a result, C++ is both strong and adaptable. C++ is an ancient yet valuable language. It is widely utilized in developing highly-professional gaming software and high-performance applications.
What can C++ do for us?
Machine learning is included in this. It offers programmers a lot of power over the computer's memory and resources. Today's graphical user interfaces and integrated devices all employ this language. It is similar to C# and Java, and it makes it simple for programmers to convert from C# to C++ and vice versa. It was created to provide an object-oriented paradigm to the C programming language. C++ is a more advanced version of C programming created to bring object orientation to the C.

It allows for the overloading of functions.
C++ is built from the ground up.
It has a total of 52 keywords.
Channels Cin and cout are also commonly used in C++ to conduct input and output actions.
C++ supports the new memory allocation operator.

Python Programming Language
Python is a powerful programming language with dynamically binding various operations and auto dynamic typing capabilities. Python is commonly used by budding programmers because of its simple syntax, organized packages, and plug-ins. Also, Python's code readability is aided by extensive whitespace in its design philosophy. Its object-oriented approach promises to assist programmers in writing logical, unambiguous code for both large and small applications.
Python's Features Include:

The ability to connect to a database system.
Python is used to develop server-side web applications.
It can do difficult math and be used for quick prototyping.
It is a high-level language with GUI programming capability.

Java Programming Language
Java is a widely-used programming language that was first released in 1995. It is safe, object-oriented, and secure. Oracle owns it, and Java is used on over 3 billion devices. It's used to create the safest programs, including web applications (using the Spring boot framework), desktop and mobile apps, massive data processing, embedded systems, etc. There is no need to delete unreferenced objects as Java has this feature named Automatic Garbage Collection.
What is Java's Potential?

APIs are provided for practically every job.
Encapsulation, abstraction, and inheritance are all supported in Java.
Opposed to other programming languages, it has a powerful exception handling and a type-checking system.
Java has a straightforward syntax.

Differences Between C, C++ Python and Java


C
C++
JAVA
PYTHON


Compiled Language
Compiled Programming language
Compiled Programming Language
Interpreted Programming Language


Operator overloading is not supported.
Supports Overloading the operator
Overloading of the operator is not supported.
Overloading of the operator is supported


Multiple inheritance is not supported in C.
Allow for both single as well as multiple inheritance options.
Java provides partial multiple inheritance
Provides both single as well as multiple inheritance


Platform-specific
Platform dependent
Platform-unaffected
Platform independent


Threads are supported.
Threads are not supported on this platform.
Multithreading capability is built-in.
Multithreading is supported.


A small number of libraries available.
Has a small number of library patrons
Many concepts, such as UI, are supported by the library.
It comes with a large library set that allows it to be used for AI, data science, and other applications.


Outside of the class, variables and functions are utilized.
Outside of the class, variables and functions are utilized.
Every line of code is contained within a class.
Functions and variables can be declared global.


Have a similar speed as C++
C++ is a computer language that compiles quickly.
The Java Program Compiler is a little slower than the C++ Compiler.
Execution is delayed due to the employment of an interpreter.


Syntax rules are strictly followed.
Syntax rules are strictly followed.
Syntax rules are strictly followed.
It isn't necessary to use semicolon ' ;'.




Next TopicHow to Check Version of Python




← prev
next →




