



next →
← prev

Python Applications
Python is known for its general-purpose nature that makes it applicable in almost every domain of software development. Python makes its presence in every emerging field. It is the fastest-growing programming language and can develop any application.
Here, we are specifying application areas where Python can be applied.

1) Web Applications
 We can use Python to develop web applications. It provides libraries to handle internet protocols such as HTML and XML, JSON, Email processing, request, beautifulSoup, Feedparser, etc. One of Python web-framework named Django is used on Instagram. Python provides many useful frameworks, and these are given below:

Django and Pyramid framework(Use for heavy applications)
Flask and Bottle (Micro-framework)
Plone and Django CMS (Advance Content management)

2) Desktop GUI Applications
The GUI stands for the Graphical User Interface, which provides a smooth interaction to any application. Python provides a Tk GUI library to develop a user interface. Some popular GUI libraries are given below.

Tkinter or Tk
wxWidgetM
Kivy (used for writing multitouch applications )
PyQt or Pyside

3) Console-based Application
Console-based applications run from the command-line or shell. These applications are computer program which are used commands to execute. This kind of application was more popular in the old generation of computers. Python can develop this kind of application very effectively. It is famous for having REPL, which means the Read-Eval-Print Loop that makes it the most suitable language for the command-line applications.
Python provides many free library or module which helps to build the command-line apps. The necessary IO libraries are used to read and write. It helps to parse argument and create console help text out-of-the-box. There are also advance libraries that can develop independent console apps.
4) Software Development
Python is useful for the software development process. It works as a support language and can be used to build control and management, testing, etc.

SCons is used to build control.
Buildbot and Apache Gumps are used for automated continuous compilation and testing.
Round or Trac for bug tracking and project management.

5) Scientific and Numeric
This is the era of Artificial intelligence where the machine can perform the task the same as the human. Python language is the most suitable language for Artificial intelligence or machine learning. It consists of many scientific and mathematical libraries, which makes easy to solve complex calculations.
Implementing machine learning algorithms require complex mathematical calculation. Python has many libraries for scientific and numeric such as Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, Scikit-learn, etc. If you have some basic knowledge of Python, you need to import libraries on the top of the code. Few popular frameworks of machine libraries are given below.

SciPy
Scikit-learn
NumPy
Pandas
Matplotlib

6) Business Applications
Business Applications differ from standard applications. E-commerce and ERP are an example of a business application. This kind of application requires extensively, scalability and readability, and Python provides all these features.
Oddo is an example of the all-in-one Python-based application which offers a range of business applications. Python provides a Tryton platform which is used to develop the business application.
7) Audio or Video-based Applications
Python is flexible to perform multiple tasks and can be used to create multimedia applications. Some multimedia applications which are made by using Python are TimPlayer, cplay, etc. The few multimedia libraries are given below.

Gstreamer
Pyglet
QT Phonon

8) 3D CAD Applications
The CAD (Computer-aided design) is used to design engineering related architecture. It is used to develop the 3D representation of a part of a system. Python can create a 3D CAD application by using the following functionalities.

Fandango (Popular )
CAMVOX
HeeksCNC
AnyCAD
RCAM

9) Enterprise Applications
Python can be used to create applications that can be used within an Enterprise or an Organization. Some real-time applications are OpenERP, Tryton, Picalo, etc.
10) Image Processing Application
Python contains many libraries that are used to work with the image. The image can be manipulated according to our requirements. Some libraries of image processing are given below.

OpenCV
Pillow
SimpleITK

In this topic, we have described all types of applications where Python plays an essential role in the development of these applications. In the next tutorial, we will learn more concepts about Python.


Next TopicHow To Install Python




← prev
next →




