



next →
← prev

Python (x,y) Software
Python (x,y) is an engineering and scientific development software that is absolutely free to use. Python (x,y) software is used for data analysis, data visualization, and numerical computations. Python (x,y) is based on Spyder interactive scientific development environment, Python programming language, and GUI (Graphical User Interface) based on Qt.

What One can do with Python (x,y)?
With the help of Python (x,y) software, we can do the following tasks and analyses:

We can perform tasks of simple functional programming (Programming language have MATLAB-like syntax) as well as tasks of powerful object-oriented programming with the help of Python (x,y) software.
We can even do clusters using parallel Python while working with Python (x,y).
From the simplest Python script to the most sophisticated application, we can do scientific project developments for all using the Python (x,y) software.
Because of its Qt's Graphical User Interface and Spyder scientific development environment, we can easily do scientific project developments with it.
Using Python (x,y) software, we can do various interactive calculations which include symbolling maths and 2-D (Two-dimensional) as well as 3-D plotting of graphs.
We can even do parallel computing on multi-processor or multi-core computers using Python (x,y).
Other than all the above-mentioned tasks, we can even do many more things with Python (x,y) software...




History of Python (x,y)
Pierre Raybaut was maintaining, conceiving, and developing Python (x,y) software since 2008 with all the future performance-related goals (We will discuss later in this article). In 2011, Gabi Davar joined the Python (x,y) project with Pierre Raybaut and is working on the project as a maintainer since then. Later in the year 2013, Pierre Raybaut moved out of this project to work on various other projects. Since 2013, Gabi Davar is working as the primary maintainer of the Python (x,y) project till now.
What Python (x,y) exactly is
The original and main purpose of Python (x,y) software is to help all the scientific programmers and project developers who were using compiled languages or interpreted languages to make them switch to Python. Python (x,y) is scientific developments oriented Python distribution software is based on the Spyder and Qt interfaces. In Python (x,y) all the programmers using complied programming language also appreciated reusing their code "as is" by wrapping it in the software so that we can directly call them in the Python scripts.

Below are the some important points that we should keep in mind.

IDL is a registered trademark of ITT Visual Information Solutions and MATLAB is a registered trademark of The MathWorks.
We can directly see the interfaces of Spyder and Qt GUI in Python (x,y) software in the plugin page of the software.
To download the Python (x,y) software and look at its plugins, we can directly go to its official website given on GitHub or can download it using the following link:
https://python-xy.github.io/downloads.html

Main features of Python (x,y)
Python (x,y) software have a lot of features but we will describe some important features.

Users who want to install or uninstall many Python packages present in their device can do it simply by clicking on a single button provided by Python (x,y) software.
Python (x,y) also provides a quick user guide about how to get started with Python, Spyder, and Qt interfaces.
Python (x,y) can collect development environment tools as well as scientific-oriented Python libraries.
With the help of Python (x,y) software, we can collect almost all free related documentations.
Python (x,y) software provides us all-in-one set-up program which makes it easy for all users to set up it on their devices.

Why was Python (x,y) created?
As we all must be aware of testing all libraries, grabbing all the free documentation present on the internet and choosing the right one (library as well as documentation) takes a lot of time. Moreover, we also need some deep perspective to elaborate the coherent development framework of its own i.e., Python development environment and its libraries. That's where the need for Python (x,y) emerged in scientific development.
Following was some of the reasons for which the need for Python (x,y) emerged:

To do the rapid prototyping using IPython (The enhanced Python shell)
Development of small and big projects (application-like projects) using environment provided by Spyder IDE (Integrated Development Environment).
For many scientific development purposes such as:

Numerical simulations,
Image processing physics (experimenting as well as modeling),
Signal processing,
Scientific computing,
Scientific engineering development etc.


Why Python?
Python is considered as the far more superior scientific language as compared to any other programming language because of the following reasons:

Python is an open-source and free scientific language.
Python is easily embeddable, extensible, and portable.
Python is a fundamentally object-oriented programming language.
It is also a general-purpose language e.g., I/O (Input & output) rich features, has many database libraries, is easily available on the internet, has a very powerful GUI, and so on.

But the only thing generally Python suffers or lacks is the absence of much documentation, even though the growing community of Python contributes to it every day with many great and explanatory tutorials on every topic.
Why Qt?
PyQt is a very easy-to-use library and very powerful and therefore we strongly recommend the use of it for GUI (Graphical User Interface) Development. Many scientific programs and developments such as 2D matplotlib graphic figures etc., can easily be embedded in PyQt application windows and it is very easy as MATLAB.


Next TopicPython Event-Driven programming




← prev
next →




