



next →
← prev

Project ideas for Python Beginners
Creating projects are the best way to learn any technology or programming language. Python is the most popular and demanding language in the current scenario. We can challenge ourselves to write the code for a particular project. Learning a new programming language is slightly hard. To get started with Python, we have the best Python tutorial.
After finishing the Python theoretical lesson, it is time to test the knowledge with the Python projects.
Before starting a discussion over the projects, we need to understand why we should learn Python.
Why should learn Python?
As per the current report, Python has become the second most popular programming language, and it has been growing steadily. Proficient Python developer can land on a lucrative and high paying job.
Topmost companies such as Google, Instagram, Spotify, Dropbox, Reddit, Instacart, etc., rely on Python. Or we can say that adding Python to the resume will make a more attractive candidate to prospective employees. We define below a few important features of Python.

Easy to use
Ease to learn
Open Source (Freely available)
Interpreted Language
Extensive Libraries and Frameworks
Rich Data Structure
Portable Language
Platform Independent
Expressive Language
Integrated Language
Use in Data Science, Web Development, GUI Applications.

We have written the complete tutorial of Python, its popular frameworks and libraries. We have defined a basic introduction to advanced topics of Python. Check out our great resource and learn more about the Python Features. Let's discuss the project ideas for beginners.
Beginners Level Python Project Ideas
In the start, we suggest don't choose the projects that require expert skills in Python. Choosing a difficult project can lead to a stressful experience. Once we get a good command over the simple project, we can easily shift to build complex projects. We have listed below the project ideas for beginner level Python developer.
1. Rock Paper Scissor
This is a mini-game which we can play alone. It is the most beloved game of all time and a simple Python project to test our skill. This will give the basic understanding of while loops and if statements. This program requires the following functions.

A random function
Function for valid move
Function for display result
Function for keeping the score

This program requires making the first move from the user, and then the computer makes the moves and validates the results.
2. Website Blocker
While surfing the internet, many unwanted sites pop up. These pop-ups distract us. This project will help in such cases as it can be built up to block certain websites from opening. It is helpful for those who get easily abstracted to switch social media while doing necessary work. In this program, we need to import the time date module.
3. Build a Twitter Bot
Twitter is one of the most popular social media networks. It is the most prominent platform to engage with the audience. We can also handle our account offline by using this project. Twitter presence involves various tasks such as keeping the account active with new tweets and retweets, following interest accounts and replying to followers. We can also these tasks manually; we don't need to visit the Twitter website or app. A Twitter Bot automates all or part of Twitter activity.
4. MadLibs Generator
MadLibs Generator is a good start for a beginner Python developer. It includes concepts like string, variables, and concatenation. In this project, we manipulate user-inputted data as Mad libs refer to a series of inputs that a user enters. The user can enter anything such as an adjective, a pronoun, or a verb. After taking all the inputs, the application arranges it to build a story template.
5. Hangman
We can consider a hangman game is the best game for beginners. We assume that all of us have played Hangman at one point in time in our life. In other words, Hangman is a "guessing a word" game. We don't need to use the external module, Python loops, and random module to create this game.
6. Number Guessing
Number Guessing is a simple but exciting game. We can consider it as a mini-game. We create a program in which the computer chooses the number randomly between 1 to 100, or any number. The user guesses the number, and if he guesses wrong, then the computer gives a clue. Every time user guesses the wrong number, he gets another clue, and his score get reduces. The clue can be anything such as divisible of guessing number, multiples, greater, or smaller, or combination of all.
To create this program, we need a function to compare the guessed number with the inputted number.
7. Dice Rolling Simulator
As the name suggests, we will create rolling dice. It is one of the most interesting and popular Python projects, and it will generate a random number between 1 to 6 as the standard dice.
We ask the user if they would like to roll the dice again. We will create a function that will generate a number randomly for them multiple times. This project will help to build a strong foundation for Python fundaments.
8. Binary Search Algorithm
The binary search algorithm is the key concept of data structure. It will help to sharp the programming skill. In this program, we will create a list of 1 to 100, with every following number having a difference of 2 between them.
Let us understand the logic of the binary search algorithm; when the user enters the number, the program will check in the defined list whether the list contains the input number or not.
It will happen by doing the two halves of the list. It will check in the first half of the list; if it finds the given number, it will eliminate the other half of the list and vice-versa. The search will continue until the sublist becomes zero; that means the number is not present in the list.
9. YouTube Video Downloader
YouTube is the most popular video streaming platform in the world. YouTube video downloader is one of the best ideas to start experimenting with hand-o experience. Sometimes, we want to download video permanently, but YouTube doesn't provide that option. We can create an app with a simple UI and download a video in a different format. This project may look difficult to accomplish, but it is easy when we start working on it.
10. Text-based Adventure Game
It is the basic game and completely text-based. In this game, the user can move about through different within a single setting. The user input decides where we need to move. It will describe each room. It is one of the interesting games to create.
Direction to move is important here. We need to create walls and set the direction in which the user can move through the rooms. We also need to set movement restrictions and include the tracker that tracks how far the user has walked.
11. Contact Book
Contact Book is also an excellent Python project for beginners. We need to save the contact details, including name, number, address, and even email address. This project is based on the command-line where we design a contact book that the user can save and find all contact details in one place. Here we all also add some functionality such as update contact information, delete contacts, and list saved contacts. We can use the SQLite database to save contacts.
12. Password Generator
It is an important concept for everyone. We can create an app that generates the password for all types of users. All types of users can use these generated passwords to secure their accounts.
13. Convert Text to speech
We can convert Text into audio speech using the Python and Google APIs. It takes the Text as an input on digital devices and converts them into audio or speech with the button click of finger touch. Google provides the gTTS API, which has many built-in functions to save the text file as an mp3. To get the complete information, visit our how to convert Text to speech in Python (https://www.javatpoint.com/how-to-convert-text-to-speech-in-python).
14. Message Encode Decode in Python
It is beneficial to hide beneficial information to hide sensitive information. The main objective of this project is to encode and decode the message using a common key. To create the project, we will use the Tkinter and base64 library.


Next TopicPython Faker




← prev
next →




