



next →
← prev

How long does it take to learn Python
Python is the most versatile and popular programming language. It is the recommended language for beginners; even the experienced programmers are also learning the Python. Python makes the task easy and performs it in a few lines of code where other programming languages take many lines.
Choosing Python is a good decision for your future. It will take 6-8 weeks to learn basic concepts of Python at a regular pace. Learning time-period also depends on the other factors, such as how much time you spend to learn the Python; you have an idea of any programming language previously.
Why learn Python
Let's understand why we should choose Python over the other programming language. It will take a few times to learn since it has a number of libraries and many concepts.
1. It is easy to learn and use
It has straight forward syntax and much the same as the English language.
2. Interpreted Language
It executes the code one line at a time, which makes it easy to debug and portable.
3. Cross-Platform
Python can run the same on different platforms such as Windows, Linux, UNIX, and Macintosh.
4. Free and Open Source
Python can download without paying any penny. It is freely available on its websites. It has a vast community across the world.
5. Large Standard Libraries
Python has many libraries for almost every field, such as Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Web development, networking, etc. No other programming language has such libraries in comparison to Python.
There are many other features that make Python popular and useful language of the current scenario. These Features are GUI Programming Support, Integration, and Dynamic memory allocation.
How long will it take to learn?
Some programming experts suggest to beginners sit in front of the computer every day 7-8 hours for two-month. This is not suitable for who are currently working or who are not in a coding boot camp. You can prefer this schedule if you have a devotee time-period or you are not involved in other activities.
Another option is to spend 2-3 hours a day on the computer. One day, learn something; the next day; do a decent amount of practice. It will do on a daily basis in order to make sure you learn in the decent amount of time. However, this process is easier to maintain from the previous one. The only learning is not a goal; you should implement that knowledge to sharpen your practical knowledge. The ultimate goal of any programming language is to develop something useful.


Next TopicHow to concatenate two strings in Python




← prev
next →




