



next →
← prev

How to Make an App in Python
These days, there's a mobile app for everything. From health to education, there is no one field an app isn't in. There comes a thought in mind, and once checked, there is already an app for it. The thing is that there are a lot of apps to do a task. There are some characteristics of an app that makes it unique from the other:

The background internet and battery consumption
Speed
The outlook
Bugs, errors, and glitches
User data

App development is a beautiful domain to work in because all the work the developer puts in always is visible. A good app always makes its way into the competition sooner or later. But building a good app isn't that easy. It starts with a good idea and ends with a good UI, but everything in the middle does take a lot of the app's performance.
This tutorial is designed to help young students and developers make a checklist when building an app or wanting to.
1. Idea
A good idea is a wonderful asset anyone can ever possess. For a person wanting to start something new, there is always something that drives him. It is the business idea for a start-up founder; it is the app idea for an app developer.

It can be a fresh idea that no one has ever touched or
It can even be just a simple thought in your brain when using an app.
A simple feature can turn the whole app around.
If you already have a good thought in your mind about what you want to build, then you are ready already.
If you are not sure whether the idea is going to click that well, it's okay too:

Dig up on the topic
Do all the research; you can check out all the related apps.
There will be a point you will reach a position where you'll know what you intend to create.

If you don't have any idea but want to develop an app, think about all the disadvantages you faced while using other apps. Then, find some already existing apps and get into using them. Try doing something new, like:

Create remixes of the apps. That'll give the best combinations creating a good byproduct.
Not having an idea is also pretty good because you can keep building features you want, and once you figure out what you want to create, you'll have all the features you developed right in your hand.


2. Market Research
Now, you have an idea of what you want to create. Now, it's time to check the competition your idea has. If your idea is already implemented, check all those apps and note the best and worst parts of using those apps. You have to ensure that all the best parts are covered in your app, and all the worst parts are resolved.

If you have an idea no one has ever tried before, check for related topics and create statistics on what feature had the most growth.
If you are trying to improve an existing app trend, find all the features that add value to your app and give the best UI to attract the user.

Developing an app is as cool as it sounds; it attracts developers and users to try out new types of apps. There are billions of apps already. But, in the billion apps, not all are legit, and not all are up to expectations.
If you're serious about your app and excited about it, you have to give the best to get the best growth.
3. List out everything
Tons of research and brainstorming will make you reach a point where you feel like you know what exactly you are going to do. Don't just start doing it; take a moment and write all the features you don't want to miss in your app because your brain will not stay in the same active state. Create a checklist and check it off once you have included a feature. This way, you can track your progress, giving you confidence amid all the errors and bugs you'll face in the middle of development.
4. Design the App
Now, you have an idea, an approximate measure of how well the app might perform in the market, and everything is listed. You close your eyes, and you should be able to see your app in your head. You have to ensure that is how your app should turn out to be, and for that, you have to create a basic design of all the features and the arrangements you have to set up in the app. It is like a house plan before you build your house.
5. The UI and the GUI
Find your target audience. There's always a target audience for an app. If it is an education-based app, it's always students and sometimes parents. Some people use apps just because they find them aesthetic, and some won't use an app unless they find it safe. Keep in mind all of these different perspectives and build the UI of the app. There are a lot of online options giving many frameworks. Check them and find the best one.

Build it the way you'll like it as a user.
But, don't limit it to yourself; think like your target audience and think about how they want the app to be like.

6. Build the app
It is the most important and the core part of developing your app:

You can use Java and other languages to code it.
You can use an existing API and add more features.
You can use an online tool-make sure you find the right one.
Find your language and start the process.

It is like building your house. You took inspiration from existing models. You have the plan, know what you want to include, and design it all on paper. It is the right time to get into the actual process.
Never rush on the process. Be patient and check everything twice. If you are coding, think like a hacker and a user and be a developer who can satisfy the user by blocking out the hacker.
Think about all the possible scenarios and problems the app might encounter and create a solution for them. When the app is in the market, you might get a lot of reviews, but if the user finds all the errors in the starting stage itself, a bad review in the initial stage will not do any good for the growth of the app.
7. Ads
It is the money stage. It is your choice, though. Advertising is good and sometimes bad if you do it too much. But in the end, everything depends on the keystrokes and how the app turns out.

If you are confident about what you built, try out a few ads and make sure ads don't interrupt the user.
As mentioned above, always think like you are a user. Would you like it if the app you are using had too many ads that interrupt your usage of the app?

8. Marketing strategies
There are a lot of bakeries in the street, and you just opened a brand new one. How does the customer know the taste of your cake if he doesn't even taste it, and why will he even taste it if he doesn't even know your bakery exists? You need to market your app. simply put, you need to let people know that you created something and want them to try it out. You can try:

Email marketing
SMS marketing
Paid marketing
Build an attached website and create ads
Use social media
Journal about your journey and try blogging

9. Make your way into the play store/ App store.
10. Check the reviews and act on them and update the app
In the initial stage of the app launch, there will not be many people trying it out. It all starts with 10's and then 100's users, and eventually, it grows. But, as a developer, you have to put the users in a position they feel comfortable using and then review it.

Respond to the reviews.
Thank the good reviews
Evaluate the bad reviews.

The world is evolving, and so is technology. We use an app, and a better one comes along; we replace the old one. It is always what happens. If people like your app, they'll choose your app over all the old apps they've been using. Now, what if another app with better features comes along?
Don't let your app grow old. Keep updating and adding new features so that people never get bored of it, and even if they see a new feature in some other app, it should already be in the app.
It makes your app stay and make room for itself in the domain.
Happy developing, and don't forget to check off the tasks once done.


Next TopicMorse Code Translator In Python




← prev
next →




