



next →
← prev

Django vs. Node JS | Difference between Django and Node JS
In this tutorial, we will discuss the primary difference between both trending technologies Django and Node JS. This tutorial will give you a deep analysis of both technologies that will help you select the appropriate language for projects or your career. We will explore all the essential topics as advantages, disadvantages, and their uses.

Both technologies are much powerful in building the various purpose web-applications with an excellent user interface. Both are open-source, which means anyone can use them without any paid license. Let's have an overview of each technology which is given below.
What is Django?
Django is a high-level web framework that permits the user to develop secure and maintainable websites. It is written in the Python programming language. Experienced programmers build it. Django handles the hassle of Web development so that users can write efficient web-applications. It has a vast active community, excellent documentation, and other features.
Features of Django
Django comes with the many useful features.

Complete

Django is based on the "Battery included" approach that allows the developer to do the things "out of the box." It provides almost every feature that works seamlessly together and follows a consistent design principle. If the user stuck while using it, he/she can take help from its up-to-date documentation.

Versatile

Django is a versatile framework and used to develop multi-purpose or any web applications. One of the advantages is that it can easily collaborate with the client-side framework and bring content in almost any format.

Secure

Security is the main reason for the popularity of Django. It provides the best security to the web-application and avoids common security mistakes. It has been engineered to "do the right things" that automatically protects web applications. Django comes with a secure way to manage the password; it also avoids common mistakes such as putting session information in cookies where it is susceptible.
Django protects the web-applications against many security issues such as SQL injection, cross-site scripting, and cross-site request forgetting and clickjacking.

Scalable

The architecture of Django is independent of others and can be changed or replace easily if required. The different parts of Django have a clear separation that means it can increase traffic by adding hardware at any level.

Maintainable

Django encourages writing maintainable and reusable code. It follows the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) approach, so we will not get any unnecessary duplication. It promotes the grouping of related functionality into the reusable application.
What is Node JS?
Node JS is a server-side JavaScript platform; it is intended to build scalable network applications and was developed by Ryan Dahl in 2009. Node JS is a cross-platform runtime environment that is used for evolving server-side as well as networking applications.
Node JS consists of a non-blocking and event-driven model that makes it lightweight and effective.
Features of Node JS
Below are the few important features of Node JS.

Asynchronous and Event-Driven

Node JS's APIs are asynchronous and event-driven, which means a Node JS bases server doesn't need to wait for an API to return data. A notification mechanism informs the server that the previous API generates a response while working on the new API.

Speed

The Node.JS library provides the superfast speed to execute the code as it is built upon Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine.

Highly Scalable

Node.JS is highly scalable because it uses a single-threaded model with event looping. Its event mechanism allows the server to respond in a non-blocking way where the traditional servers create limited threads to handle requests. It makes Node.JS highly scalable. The Node.JS single thread program can provide the service to a large number compared to traditional servers such as Apache HTTP.

No Buffering

Node.JS application doesn't buffer while processing the data. These applications process the output data in portions.
Difference between Django and Node.JS


Characteristics
Django
Node JS


Definition
Django is Python based web framework. It is an open-source platform to build rich web applications.
Node JS is an open-source web application that runs on JavaScript designed to build powerful APIs (Client-side).


Security
It provides strong security and comes with highly protected built-in system which prevents any deficiency.
It is not secure as Django and requires manual operations to handle the security issues.


Performance
It provides much better performance and helping to create major web-applications. It comes with a built-in house template system that facilitates the execution of a required task quickly.
Node JS's performance is quite impressive as it provide the freedom to developers. But it takes much time to develop the application.


Efficiency
Django is very efficient and provides fast speed. And so, it is cost effective.
It consumes more operating time. However, it is easy to learn. It is less cost effective.


Architecture
It follows the MVT model template view.
It works on the event-driven model. It runs on an operating system maintaining a small stack of requests. 


Flexibility
This framework is less flexible and has quite strict development features.
In Node JS, there are various tools and features available because it is built upon a JavaScript library.


Development Speed
It takes less operating time due to the built-in system; However, it is time-consuming to learn if the developer doesn't know python.
It takes more operating time but if developers are experienced with JavaScript then it is quite helpful.


Tool Type
It is a web framework.
It is a runtime environment.


Community
Django has a vast community across the world and up-to-date documentation.
It also has a vast community.


Architectures of Node JS and Django

Django
Django follows the MVT (Model View Template) architecture. It provides several advantages over the many old frameworks. It helps the developer to build apps faster and advanced. Its component-based pattern helps in ease modification. One change in a component does not affect the whole application or another component.
Node JS
Node JS architecture is quite dissimilar to the other server-side platforms. It is based on the even loop architecture and single-threaded that helps to build high-end applications. The advantage of single-threaded is that there is no context switching between that helps to reduce reloads. In Node JS, handling multiple concurrent requests is easy and very fast. It provides robustness to the application and making them available for processing requests without delay.
Advantages and Disadvantages of Django
Below are the few important pros and cons of Django.
Advantages

It provides better security to the web-application.
It takes less time to complete large projects as compared to other frameworks.
It offers a better performance level with in-build templates.
It is comparatively easy to learn.

Disadvantages

It allows the building of only single-tiered applications.
It is not suitable for small apps.
It requires more understanding of the framework.

Advantages and Disadvantages of Node JS
Below are a few important pros and cons of Node JS.
Advantages

It has an active and huge community across the world.
It is open-source and consists of more libraries.
It has an easier system to follow with less complicated features.
We can execute commands open handily.

Conclusion
In this tutorial, we have learned the difference between two leading web technologies - Node JS and Django. Moreover, we have also discussed the various aspects of both technologies. Both technologies are suitable to build large-scale web applications or web apps.
Before choosing anyone from them, we need to understand our requirements.
Django is much secure where it maintains passwords effectively and Node JS provides many libraries, which helps the developer create highly flexible web apps.
There is no specific answer to the question, "Which technology is much better?" All we need to understand the project requirements then should move to the most appropriate technology.


Next TopicPython Frameworks




← prev
next →




